# Some Learnings... #

Just some basics to let you know my current bias. I do believe that FDO is the way of the way to go. Without a doubt this is the correct track to be on. Just like everything else however, it has a way to go to get to maturity. I do not like the Autodesk FDO provider for Oracle. IMHO, Haris Kurtagic’s [King.Oracle Provider](http://www.sl-king.com/fdooracle/fdooracle.html) is the way to go. Of course his, [FDO2FDO](http://www.sl-king.com/fdo2fdo/fdo2fdo.html) is essential and an excellent piece of work.

That being said I really did not wish to deal with all the "weight" that FDO brings to every application. So I thought I would code up an application that moved DWG geometry to an Oracle table. It seemed to me to be a fairly straightforward task since I had put together that UDT for `MDSYS.SDO_GEOMETRY`. I always wondered why I had not seen some code examples of doing this. Well folks, now I know...

ODP does not play well with Map3d. For those of you who do ObjectARX.NET applications there are significant problems in heap management between ODP and Map3d. The basic premise of this app is to open a DWG as an "aside" using `ReadDwgFile()`, iterate the geometry, convert it to the correct format and insert it into the table. Let me "cut to the chase" on this one. It ended up that I had to "load" a DWG before any call was made to any ODP.NET classes. (In all fairness to Autodesk they are very clear in that they do not support these foreign database access methods within there architecture.) Once this is done there is no difficulty. I am able to iterate through a list of DWG’s and instantiate the database with `ReadDwgFile()` any number of times. At least in my case the acad.exe heap is now toast. For example, if after netloading and executing my app I attempt to use FDO within Map3d it will fail. Just restart Map3d and all is fine.

I had set up my `sdogeometry` UDT in a separate class being that I did not wish to duplicate the code across any number of applications. This is of course doable but I had a very frustrating time getting ODP.NET to "see" my UDT class within the Map3d environment. As the documentation reads, `Oracle.Access.Client` does a reflection on the executing assembly and looks for the `OracleCustomTypeMappingAttribute`. This works great if your UDT class is internal to your assembly. If you have an external class assembly the alternative is to set up an xml App.config file that Client will look for or add an entry to the machine.config. I never got this to work. I found that I had to actually instantiate an `NetSdoGeometry.sdogeometry` object within the `[CommandMethod("????")]` decorated method. Wow … NOT a big sacrifice but it did take me some time to come up with the correct timings.

To do the conversions from Map3d I first used TF.NET to convert to a JTS IGeometry object and to Maksim’s credit this seems to work well. (I did, however, take the time to code up emulating a circle as a linestring.) To do the conversion to `sdogeometry` I used Oracle’s `JGeometry` object. Remember I am working with Oracle XE 10.2 and it does not come with the builtin JVM so WKB/WKT are there but return nothing. I choose not to use the monoGIS distribution and did the IKVM byte code conversions myself using the most current JGeometry version I could find. Since I was only interested in the WKB/WKT methods I was not too concerned with the warnings coming out of IKVM. I forget the compile order but I needed these 4: `sdoapi`, `sdoutl`, `xmlparserv2` and `ojdbc5`.

At this point a have a fully functional application. Not the fastest piece of code I have done but I certainly do exercise TF.NET. The next step will be to code up the load of the `sdogeometry` objects directly. But, I am in no hurry. Computer cycles are a lot cheaper than my time.

# Credits #

This wiki article was kindly contributed by Dennis Jonio.