#summary TF.NET Reader/Writer for MapGuide
#labels Featured

== Introduction ==

A reader/writer for geometric primitives exposed by OSGeo MapGuide Server.
Before further reading, please see [http://code.google.com/p/tf-net/wiki/FdoReaderWriter FDO Reader/Writer] and http://code.google.com/p/tf-net/wiki/JtsBinaryPredicates Binary Predicates] introductory notes. Althugh MapGuide relays on it's own (FDO-based) spatial filters, there are situations when they are simply not enough - most often FDO providers don't expose necessary binary predicates by design. On the other hand, you can use rich JTS API to perform targeted geospatial analysis and bounce results back to MapGuide in some form (i.e. redlining, feature or spatial filter, etc).


== Components ==

A `Topology.IO.MapGuide.dll` library file available for download [http://code.google.com/p/tf-net/downloads/list here]. Library exposes `MgReader` and `MgWriter` classes residing within `Topology.IO.MapGuide` namespace.


== Prerequisites ==

References MapGuide Server's `MapGuideDotNetApi.dll` library, which in turn references other unmanaged libraries. All necessary support libraries are available for download [http://download.osgeo.org/mapguide/releases/1.2.0/mapguide-1.2.0.tar.gz here].

If you already have any running version of MapGuide Server (either OSS or Enterprise), you can simply reference it's libraries found in `..\WebServerExtensions\www\mapviewernet\bin` folder, rather than downloading full set of binaries using link above.

Also references TF.NET core library available for download [http://code.google.com/p/tf-net/downloads/list here].


== Limitations ==

Currently can neither read nor write geometries involving curves.